PCSM 286 289 cross version replication (#55)
percona/pcsm-docs: docs/version-compatibility.md

# Cross-version replication

{{pcsm.full_name}} (PCSM) supports replication only for the MongoDB major-version combinations listed in the compatibility matrix below. In the current release, this includes clusters running the same major version and selected lower-to-higher upgrade paths. This lets you synchronize data during a staged upgrade or maintain replication across clusters that run different versions where support is explicitly provided.

> At startup, PCSM checks whether the source and target major-version combination is listed as supported in the compatibility matrix below. If the combination is not supported, PCSM blocks startup and exits with an error, including all cases where the source major version is higher than the target major version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At startup, PCSM compares the source and target major versions. If the source major version is higher than the target's, PCSM rejects startup with `version check: source X > target Y: downgrade not supported` . All other combinations are allowed to start; combinations not listed in the matrix below are untested.
```

## Supported scenarios

PCSM supports synchronization only for version combinations explicitly marked as supported in the compatibility matrix below.

In the current release, supported scenarios are:

- Both clusters run the same major version.
- The target cluster runs the next supported higher major version shown in the matrix.

> PCSM blocks synchronization in all cases where the source major version is higher than the target major version. Combinations that are not listed as supported in the matrix are not supported in the current release.

Reviewer: This could be reworded since it is not exactly true.
```suggestion
Other combinations may start but are not tested or officially supported. PCSM only explicitly rejects downgrades.
```

## Version compatibility matrix

| Source version | Target version | Supported | Notes |
|----------------|----------------|-----------|-------|
| 6.0.x | 6.0.x | **Yes** | — |
| 6.0.x | 7.0.x | **Yes** | — |
| 6.0.x | 8.0.x | **Yes** | — |
| 7.0.x | 7.0.x | **Yes** | — |
| 7.0.x | 8.0.x | **Yes** | — |
| 8.0.x | 7.0.x | **No** | Downgrade replication is not supported. |
| 7.0.x | 6.0.x | **No** | Downgrade replication is not supported. |

> | Any higher version | Any lower version| **No** | Downgrade paths are not supported. |

Author: @inelpandzic, should we also include support for version 8.0 to 8.0?

Reviewer: Of course @rasika-chivate

Use only the version combinations listed as supported in the table above. Unsupported combinations may start successfully but are not tested or officially supported.

## Limitations

- **Feature Compatibility Version (FCV) is not automatically checked between your source and target clusters**

    PCSM does not automatically check the Feature Compatibility Version (FCV) between your source and target clusters. Because an incompatible FCV might cause replication failures, it is important to perform this check manually before you begin:

    Confirm the FCV for both your source and target clusters.
    Ensure the target cluster's FCV is equal to or higher than the source cluster's FCV.

- **Downgrade replication is not supported**

    PCSM blocks startup if the source major version is higher than the target major version.

> - **Version compatibility is checked only at startup** 

Reviewer 2: Is this really a limitation?

Author: I think, this should be a limitation.

Reviewer: I think we are covering this enough with `At startup, PCSM checks whether the source and target major-version combination is listed as supported` mentioned above.
So let's remove it from limitations. It's more of an informational statement about the timing of the version checks.

Author: ok

Author: Fixed

PCSM checks the major version relationship between source and target at startup. If the source major version is higher than the target major version, PCSM blocks startup and exits with an error.

## Supported scenarios

PCSM supports synchronization only for version combinations explicitly marked as supported in the compatibility matrix below.

In the current release, supported scenarios are:

- Both clusters run the same major version.
- The target cluster runs the next supported higher major version shown in the matrix.

PCSM blocks synchronization in all cases where the source major version is higher than the target major version. Non-downgrade combinations that are not listed as supported in the matrix are not supported in the current release.

## Version compatibility matrix

| Source version | Target version | Supported | Notes |
|----------------|----------------|-----------|-------|
| 6.0.x | 6.0.x | **Yes** | — |
| 6.0.x | 7.0.x | **Yes** | — |

> | 6.0.x | 8.0.x | **Planned** | Not available in the current release. Use the upgrade path: 6.0 → 7.0 → 8.0 |

Reviewer 3: it's supported

Author: Fixed

Author: Fixed

| 7.0.x | 7.0.x | **Yes** | — |
| 7.0.x | 8.0.x | **Yes** | — |
| 8.0.x | 7.0.x | **No** | Downgrade replication is not supported. |
| 7.0.x | 6.0.x | **No** | Downgrade replication is not supported. |

> | Any higher | Any lower | **No** | All downgrade paths are blocked. |

Reviewer 3: What does it mean that all downgrade paths are blocked?

Author: Not supported.

Author: Fixed

Use only the version combinations listed as supported in the table above. Unsupported combinations may start successfully but are not tested or officially supported.

## Limitations

- **The version check is major-only**

> 

Reviewer 3: It's not really a limitaiton or smth we should inform users, imho, should be removed

Author: Fixed

    PCSM validates only MongoDB major versions. It does not compare patch versions or validate combinations against a certified compatibility list.

    Verify patch-level compatibility before deploying mixed-version environments.

> - **Feature Compatibility Version (FCV) is not validated**

Reviewer 3: Feature Compatibility Version (FCV) isn't automatically checked between your source and target clusters

Author: Fixed

    PCSM does not compare the Feature Compatibility Version (FCV) values of the source and target clusters.

    If the target cluster FCV is lower than the source cluster FCV, replication issues may occur and PCSM will not detect the mismatch automatically.

    Before starting replication:

    - Verify the FCV on both clusters

>     - Ensure the target cluster FCV is equal to or higher than the source cluster FCV

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
PCSM does not automatically check the Feature Compatibility Version (FCV) between your source and target clusters. Because an incompatible FCV might cause replication failures, it is important to perform this check manually before you begin:

Confirm the FCV for both your source and target clusters.
Ensure the target cluster's FCV is equal to or higher than the source cluster's FCV.
```

- **Downgrade replication is not supported**

    PCSM blocks startup if the source major version is higher than the target major version.

- **Cross-version replication on sharded clusters is not fully tested**

>     Cross-version replication on sharded clusters is not fully tested. Before deploying this configuration in production, verify setup in a staging environment that mirrors your production topology.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
